Try to improve text for initialization. (#2961)
modelica/ModelicaSpecification: chapters/equations.tex

variables) is equal.  Often, this is a nonlinear system of equations and therefore it may be necessary to provide appropriate guess values (i.e., \lstinline!start! values and
\lstinline!fixed = false!) in order to compute a solution numerically.

It may be difficult for a user to figure out how many initial equations have to be added, especially if the system has a higher index.
A tool may add or remove initial equations automatically such that the resulting system is structurally nonsingular.
In these cases diagnostics are appropriate since the result is not unique and not necessarily what the user expects.
\begin{itemize}
\item A missing initial value of a discrete-time variable which does not influence the simulation result, may be automatically set to the \lstinline!start! value or its default without informing the user.
For example, variables assigned in a \lstinline!when!-clause which are not accessed outside of the \lstinline!when!-clause and where \lstinline!pre! is not explicitly used on these variables, do not have an effect on the simulation.

> \item A start-value that is not fixed may be seen as fixed with a message/warning.

Reviewer: I think _treated as_ sounds better, and I believe we should stick with "diagnostics" for consistency (or change to message/warning also in other places):
```suggestion
\item A \lstinline!start!-attribute that is not fixed may be treated as fixed with a diagnostics.
```

> \item A consistent start-value or initial equation may be removed with a message/warning.

Reviewer: We no longer have the dashed form of _start-value_; I think it should be either "`start`-attribute" or "start value", although I can also see we have a couple of "`start` value".

Author: Ok, done.

> \item Changing the initialization in a way that does not satisfy the initial equations and fixed start-values should generate an error.

Reviewer: Better to say it's not allowed:
```suggestion
\item Tools must not change the initialization in a way that does not satisfy the initial equations and fixed start-values.
```

variables) is equal.  Often, this is a nonlinear system of equations and therefore it may be necessary to provide appropriate guess values (i.e., \lstinline!start! values and
\lstinline!fixed = false!) in order to compute a solution numerically.

It may be difficult for a user to figure out how many initial equations have to be added, especially if the system has a higher index.
\end{nonnormative}
Based on these non-normative considerations we have the following rules:
A tool may add or remove initial equations automatically such that the resulting system is structurally nonsingular.

> In these cases diagnostics are appropriate since the result is not unique and not necessarily what the user expects.

Reviewer: Looks good.  Resolving.

\begin{itemize}
\item A missing initial value of a discrete-time variable which does not influence the simulation result, may be automatically set to the \lstinline!start! value or its default without informing the user.

> For example, variables assigned in a \lstinline!when!-clause which are not accessed outside of the \lstinline!when!-clause and where \lstinline!pre! is not explicitly used on these variables, do not have an effect on the simulation.

Reviewer: Looks good now.  Resolving.

> For example, variables assigned in a \lstinline!when!-clause which are not accessed outside of the \lstinline!when!-clause and where \lstinline!pre! is not explicitly used on these variables, do not have an effect on the simulation.

Reviewer: Wait, I don't see that we have this mismatch between _discrete-time expression_ and _discrete-time variable_.  That we don't have an index entry for _discrete-time variable_ is to me explained by the fact that the meaning follows directly from the meaning of _discrete-time expression_ and _variable_.  When I follow the added reference, I find what looks like a definition that doesn't exclude parameters and constants:
>   A \emph{discrete-time} variable \lstinline!vd! has a vanishing time derivative between events.
>  Note that this is not the same as saying that \lstinline!der(vd)=0! almost everywhere, as the derivative is not even defined at the events, and it is not legal to apply \lstinline!der! to discrete-time variables as they are not continuous. > During transient analysis the variable can only change its value at event instants (see \cref{events-and-synchronization}).

This feels like a bigger problem with our definitions, and I'm not sure the best solution is just to find another formulation to use here.

> For example, variables assigned in a \lstinline!when!-clause which are not accessed outside of the \lstinline!when!-clause and where \lstinline!pre! is not explicitly used on these variables, do not have an effect on the simulation.

Author: But if you look at the three other bullet points: constant, parameter, and continuous-time variable you see that they are disjoint and don't include the less variable ones - in contrast to the corresponding points for expressions. That's why we can have continuous-time variables, but non-discrete-time-expressions. Similarly in 8.6 Initialization the discrete-time variables have rules that don't apply to parameters and constants.

So, vanishing time-derivative between events is either bad explanation since it is a necessary, but not sufficient, condition to be a discrete-time variable (technically a "continuous-time variable" may also satisfy it); or just a plain error.
The correct definition is sort of hinted and is Integer, Boolean (etc) with prefix discrete, or without prefix. And Real with prefix discrete or without prefix and assigned in a when-clause. Once it is defined we can then state discrete-time variables implies this property.

> For example, variables assigned in a \lstinline!when!-clause which are not accessed outside of the \lstinline!when!-clause and where \lstinline!pre! is not explicitly used on these variables, do not have an effect on the simulation.

Reviewer: Sounds like a plan!

> For example, variables assigned in a \lstinline!when!-clause which are not accessed outside of the \lstinline!when!-clause and where \lstinline!pre! is not explicitly used on these variables, do not have an effect on the simulation.

Author: That is now a separate PR. So, is there any remaining issue with this PR?

> For example, variables assigned in a \lstinline!when!-clause which are not accessed outside of the \lstinline!when!-clause and where \lstinline!pre! is not explicitly used on these variables, do not have an effect on the simulation.

Author: This is now a separate PR #2989 - so that we can close this one.

> For example, variables assigned in a \lstinline!when!-clause which are not accessed outside of the \lstinline!when!-clause and where \lstinline!pre! is not explicitly used on these variables, do not have an effect on the simulation.

Reviewer: Sure, we'd be able to close this once #2989 is fixed.

> For example, variables assigned in a \lstinline!when!-clause which are not accessed outside of the \lstinline!when!-clause and where \lstinline!pre! is not explicitly used on these variables, do not have an effect on the simulation.

Reviewer: Considering that we're homing in on merging #2989, let's consider this resolved.

> \item A \lstinline!start!-attribute that is not fixed may be treated as fixed with a diagnostics.

Reviewer 2: Here is another case of "a diagnostics". It should be either "a diagnostic" or "diagnostics".

> \item A consistent \lstinline!start!-value or initial equation may be removed with a message/warning.

Reviewer 2: This `start`-value is still hyphenated.

Reviewer 2: Comment on the suggested change by @henrikt-ma: "diagnostics" is plural so should not use an article "a". 
```suggestion
\item A consistent \lstinline!start!-value or initial equation may be removed with diagnostics.
```
Ugh, a quick search for "diagnostic" in the specification shows a couple of other instances where we say "a diagnostics is".

Reviewer: Yeah, it wasn't typo by accident; rather a deliberate typo. :)  I've always found this use of _diagnostics_ strange.

Reviewer: Looking around in the document, it looks as if we can resolve this in most or all places by just removing the _a_ in front of _diagnostics_.

Reviewer 2: It would make more sense to me to use the singular when we mean a warning should be given. I have always been a bit uncertain about what is expected from the tool when it says _diagnostics must be given_. It feels like I need to do something more than just issue a warning and I am not sure what it is supposed to be.

Reviewer: Yes, maybe that's the least confusing wording.  For the, the intention of saying _diagnostics_ without the _a_ in front is to convey the same kind of uncountable sense as in _information_ – we don't want to get into details about how much diagnostic information should be given to the user, as long as there is some.  But hey, if that is not the right way of saying it, my good intentions are nothing worth.

Another reason to say _a diagnostic_ is that it becomes consistent with the stronger _a warning_ – to just say _warnings_ when meaning typically a single warning sounds wrong even to me. :)

> \item Tools must not change the initialization in a way that does not satisfy the initial equations and fixed start-values.

Reviewer: Resolving this conversation, possibly to be continued in a newer conversation started below.

variables) is equal.  Often, this is a nonlinear system of equations and therefore it may be necessary to provide appropriate guess values (i.e., \lstinline!start! values and
\lstinline!fixed = false!) in order to compute a solution numerically.

It may be difficult for a user to figure out how many initial equations have to be added, especially if the system has a higher index.
\end{nonnormative}

Based on these non-normative considerations we have the following rules:

> A tool may add or remove initial equations automatically according to the rules below such that the resulting system is structurally nonsingular.

Reviewer: Before an item list like this, we almost always use a colon instead of period:
```suggestion
A tool may add or remove initial equations automatically according to the rules below such that the resulting system is structurally nonsingular:
```

\begin{itemize}

> \item A missing initial value of a discrete-time variable (see \cref{component-variability-prefixes-discrete-parameter-constant} - this does not include parameter and constant variables), which does not influence the simulation result, may be automatically set to the start value or its default without informing the user.

Reviewer: En-dash:
```suggestion
\item A missing initial value of a discrete-time variable (see \cref{component-variability-prefixes-discrete-parameter-constant} -- this does not include parameter and constant variables), which does not influence the simulation result, may be automatically set to the start value or its default without informing the user.
```

Reviewer: Also remove comma:
```suggestion
\item A missing initial value of a discrete-time variable (see \cref{component-variability-prefixes-discrete-parameter-constant} -- this does not include parameter and constant variables) which does not influence the simulation result, may be automatically set to the start value or its default without informing the user.
```

For example, variables assigned in a \lstinline!when!-clause which are not accessed outside of the \lstinline!when!-clause and where \lstinline!pre! is not explicitly used on these variables, do not have an effect on the simulation.
\item A \lstinline!start!-attribute that is not fixed may be treated as fixed with a diagnostic.
\item A consistent start value or initial equation may be removed with a diagnostic.

> \end{itemize}
> Tools must not change the initialization in a way that does not satisfy the initial equations and fixed start values.

Reviewer: Proper paragraph break:
```suggestion
\end{itemize}

Tools must not change the initialization in a way that does not satisfy the initial equations and fixed start values.
```

Reviewer: Am I missing the reason why this needs to be normative?  If it is a rule meant particularly for the turning of non-fixed to fixed, maybe this could be made more clear (maybe put it back in the list, but as a sub-item)?  It's already stated that these rules can only be applied to make the initialization structurally non-singular – isn't that enough?

Reviewer: Maybe this was resolved by mistake?  I couldn't see any sign of a resolution or reason to resolve without action.

Maybe the problem was that two different comments were grouped into the same conversation – I suppose this is a GitHub limitation one has to get used to?

Author: Ok, making it non-normative and re-formulating.
The reason for re-formulating is that "must not" is a strict requirement, and it doesn't make sense to have that as non-normative text.

Reviewer: Looks OK now.  Resolving.

variables) is equal.  Often, this is a nonlinear system of equations and therefore it may be necessary to provide appropriate guess values (i.e., \lstinline!start! values and
\lstinline!fixed = false!) in order to compute a solution numerically.

It may be difficult for a user to figure out how many initial equations have to be added, especially if the system has a higher index.
\end{nonnormative}

> Based on these non-normative considerations we have the following rules:
> A tool may add or remove initial equations automatically according to the rules below such that the resulting system is structurally nonsingular:

Reviewer: Only the final sentence before the list should end in colon:
```suggestion
Based on these non-normative considerations we have the following rules.
A tool may add or remove initial equations automatically according to the rules below such that the resulting system is structurally nonsingular:
```

\begin{itemize}

> \item A missing initial value of a discrete-time variable (see \cref{component-variability-prefixes-discrete-parameter-constant} -- this does not include parameter and constant variables) which does not influence the simulation result, may be automatically set to the start value or its default without informing the user.

Reviewer: This way of writing looks fine to me:
- The dash is contained within a balanced pair of parentheses.
- It offers a way of breaking up the contents of the parenthesis in a relatively strong fashion without the need to turn to two full-fledged sentences, which would be problematic for a parenthesis in the middle of a sentence.
- We follow the "spaced en-dash" style rather than "spaceless em-dash", and we have somewhere around 80 of them in the document.

> \item A missing initial value of a discrete-time variable (see \cref{component-variability-prefixes-discrete-parameter-constant} -- this does not include parameter and constant variables) which does not influence the simulation result, may be automatically set to the start value or its default without informing the user.

Reviewer 2: @henrikt-ma, OK, let's use en dash then. What we should not do is to start the clause with an en dash and end with a parenthesis, which is what is written currently.

> \item A missing initial value of a discrete-time variable (see \cref{component-variability-prefixes-discrete-parameter-constant} -- this does not include parameter and constant variables) which does not influence the simulation result, may be automatically set to the start value or its default without informing the user.

Reviewer: Again, this is not how I read it; this is what I see _within the parentheses_:
> see \cref{component-variability-prefixes-discrete-parameter-constant} -- this does not include parameter and constant variables

> \item A missing initial value of a discrete-time variable (see \cref{component-variability-prefixes-discrete-parameter-constant} -- this does not include parameter and constant variables) which does not influence the simulation result, may be automatically set to the start value or its default without informing the user.

Reviewer 2: Ah, I see. Is there a way we can break up this sentence into 2 or rewrite it in some other way? This combination of brackets and en-dashes requires multiple re-reads to understand what it says, and even then prone to misinterpretation. Before posting my original comment I used my standard test for "Is it just me or is it really confusing?" which consists of grabbing a person next to me and asking "Does it make sense to you?" and together we tried to match the brackets and dashes and failed. So it is not just me.
For example:
> If a discrete-time variable (see \cref{component-variability-prefixes-discrete-parameter-constant}) that is not a constant or a parameter is missing an initial value and does not influence the simulation result, the initial value may be automatically set to the start value or its default without informing the user.

Hmm, trying to rewrite this, I have more questions about what we actually try to say here. 
1. Is it the variable that does not influence the simulation result or its initial value? How would you determine that?
2. In "set to the start value or its default": Is it default of the start value or the variable? Also, if the variable is missing an initial value, doesn't it mean that there is no start value?
